VII.
The Governor's Hall.
Hester Prynne went one day to the mansion of Governor Bellingham, with a pair of gloves
which he had fringed and embroidered to his order, and which were to be worn on some great
occasion of state, for, though the chances of a popular election had caused this former
ruler to descend a step or two from the highest rank, he still held an honourable and influential
place among the colonial magistracy.
Another and far more important reason than the delivery of a pair of embroidered gloves
impelled Hester at this time to seek an interview with a personage of so much power and activity
in the affairs of the settlement.
It had reached her ears that there was a design on the part of some of the leading inhabitants
cherishing the more rigid order of principles in religion and government, to deprive her
of her child.
On the supposition that Pearl, as already hinted, was of demon origin, these good people
not unreasonably argued that a Christian interest in the mother's soul required them
to remove such a stumbling block from her path.
If the child, on the other hand, were really capable of moral and religious growth, and
possessed the elements of ultimate salvation, then surely it would enjoy all the fairer
prospects of these advantages by being transferred to wiser and better guardianship than Hester
Prynne's.
Among those who promoted the design, Governor Bellingham was said to be one of the most
busy.
It may appear singular and, indeed, not a little ludicrous, that an affair of this kind,
which in later days would have been referred to no higher jurisdiction than that of the
select men of the town, should then have been a question publicly discussed, and on which
statesmen of eminence took sides.
At that epoch of pristine simplicity, however, matters of even slighter public interest,
and of far less intrinsic weight than the welfare of Hester and her child, were strangely
mixed up with the deliberations of legislators and acts of state.
The period was hardly, if at all, earlier than that of our story, when a dispute concerning
the right of property in a pig not only caused a fierce and bitter contest in the legislative
body of the colony, but resulted in an important modification of the framework itself of the
legislature.
Full of concern, therefore, but so conscious of her own right that it seemed scarcely an
unequal match between the public on one side and a lonely woman, backed by the sympathies
of nature on the other, Hester Prynne set forth from her solitary cottage.
Little Pearl, of course, was her companion.
She was now of an age to run lightly along by her mother's side, and, constantly in motion,
from morn till sunset, could have accomplished a much longer journey than that before her.
Often, nevertheless, more from caprice than necessity, she demanded to be taken up in
arms, but was soon as imperious to be let down again, and frisked onward before Hester
on the grassy pathway, with many a harmless trip and tumble.
We have spoken of Pearl's rich and luxuriant beauty, a beauty that shone with deep and
vivid tints, a bright complexion, eyes possessing intensity both of depth and glow, and hair
already of a deep glossy brown, and which, in after years, would be nearly akin to black.
There was fire in her and throughout her.
She seemed the unpremeditated offshoot of a passionate moment.
Her mother, in contriving the child's garb, had allowed the gorgeous tendencies of her
imagination their full play, arraying her in a crimson velvet tunic of a peculiar cut,
abundantly embroidered in fantasies and flourishes of gold thread.
So much strength of colouring, which must have given a wane and pallid aspect to cheeks
of a fainter bloom, was admirably adapted to Pearl's beauty, and made her the very
brightest little jet of flame that ever danced upon the earth.
But it was a remarkable attribute of this garb, and indeed of the child's whole appearance,
that irresistibly and inevitably reminded the beholder of the token which Hester Prynne
was doomed to wear upon her bosom.
It was the scarlet letter in another form, the scarlet letter endowed with life.
The mother herself, as if the red ignominy were so deeply scorched into her brain that
all her conceptions assumed its form, had carefully wrought out the similitude, lavishing
many hours of morbid ingenuity to create an analogy between the object of her affection
and the emblem of her guilt and torture.
But in truth Pearl was the one as well as the other, and only in consequence of that
identity had Hester contrived so perfectly to represent the scarlet letter in her appearance.
As the two wayfarers came within the precincts of the town, the children of the Puritans
looked up from their play, or what passed for play with those somber little urchins,
and spoke gravely one to another.
Behold verily there is the woman of the scarlet letter, and of a truth moreover, there is
likeness of the scarlet letter running along by her side.
Come therefore and let us fling mud at them.
But Pearl, who was a dauntless child, after frowning, stamping her foot, and shaking her
little hand with a variety of threatening gestures, suddenly made a rush at the nod
of her enemies, and put them all to flight.
She resembled, in her fierce pursuit of them, an infant pestilence.
The scarlet fever, or some such half-fledged angel of judgment, whose mission was to punish
the sins of the rising generation, she screamed and shouted too with a terrific volume of
sound, which doubtless caused the hearts of the fugitives to quake within them.
The victory accomplished, Pearl returned quietly to her mother, and looked up, smiling, into
her face.
Without further adventure they reached the dwelling of Governor Bellingham.
This was a large wooden house, built in a fashion of which there are specimens still
extant in the streets of our older towns, now moss-grown, crumbling to decay, and melancholy
at heart with the many sorrowful or joyful occurrences, remembered or forgotten, that
have happened and passed away within their dusky chambers.
Then, however, there was the freshness of the passing year on its exterior, and the
gleaming forth from the sunny windows of a human habitation into which death had never
entered.
It had, indeed, a very cheery aspect, the walls being overspread with a kind of stucco
in which fragments of broken glass were plentifully intermixed, so that, when the sunshine fell
a slantwise over the front of the edifice, it glittered and sparkled as if diamonds had
been flung against it by the double handful.
The brilliancy might have fitted Aladdin's palace rather than the mansion of a grave
old Puritan ruler.
It was further decorated with strange and seemingly cabalistic figures and diagrams,
suitable to the quaint taste of the age which had been drawn in the stucco when newly laid
on, and had now grown hard and durable for the admiration of aftertimes.
Pearl, looking at this bright wonder of a house, began to caper and dance, and imperatively
required that the whole breadth of sunshine should be stripped off its front and given
her to play with.
"'No, my little Pearl,' said her mother, "'thou must gather thine own sunshine.
I have none to give thee.'
They approached the door, which was of an arched form, and flanked on each side by a
narrow tower or projection of the edifice, in both of which were lattice windows, the
wooden shutters to close over them at need.
Lifting the iron hammer that hung at the portal, Hester Prynne gave a summons, which was answered
by one of the governor's bond-servants, a free-born Englishman, but now a seven-year
slave.
During that term he was to be the property of his master, and as much a commodity of
bargain and sale as an ox or a joint-stool.
The serf wore the customary garb of serving-men at that period and long before, in the old
hereditary halls of England.
"'Is the worshipful Governor Bellingham within?'
inquired Hester.
"'Yea, forsooth,' replied the bond-servant, staring with wide open eyes at the scarlet
letter, which, being a newcomer in the country, he had never before seen.
Yea, his honourable worship is within, but he hath a godly minister or two with him,
and likewise a liege.
Yea may not see his worship now.'
"'Nevertheless I will enter,' answered Hester Prynne, and the bond-servant, perhaps judging
from the decision of her heir, and the glittering symbol in her bosom, that she was a great
lady in the land, offered no opposition.
So the mother and little Pearl were admitted into the hall of entrance, with many variations
suggested by the nature of his building materials, diversity of climate, and a different mode
of social life, Governor Bellingham had planned his new habitation after the residences of
gentlemen of Ferris State in his native land.
Here then was a wide and reasonably lofty hall, extending through the whole depth of
the house and forming a medium of general communication more or less directly with all
the other apartments.
At one extremity this spacious room was lighted by the windows of the two towers, which formed
a small recess on either side of the portal.
At the other end, though partly muffled by a curtain, it was more powerfully illuminated
by one of those embowed hall windows which we read of in old books, and which was provided
with a deep and cushioned seat.
Here on the cushion lay a folio tome probably of the Chronicles of England or other such
substantial literature, even as, in our own days, we scatter gilded volumes on the center
table to be turned over by the casual guest.
The furniture of the hall consisted of some ponderous chairs, the backs of which were
elaborately carved with wreaths of oaken flowers, and likewise a table in the same taste, the
being of the Elizabethan age, or perhaps earlier, and heirlooms transferred hither from the
governor's paternal home.
On the table, in token that the sentiment of Old English hospitality had not been left
behind, stood a large pewter tankard, at the bottom of which, had Hester or Pearl peeped
into it, they might have seen the frothy remnant of a recent draught of ale.
On the wall hung a row of portraits, representing the forefathers of the Bellingham lineage,
some with armor on their breasts, and others with stately ruffs and robes of peace.
All were characterized by the sternness and severity which old portraits so invariably
put on, as if they were the ghosts, rather than the pictures of departed worthies, and
gazing with harsh and intolerant criticism at the pursuits and enjoyments of living men.
At about the center of the oaken panels that lined the hall was suspended a suit of mail,
not like the pictures an ancestral relic, but of the most modern date, for it had been
manufactured by a skilful armorer in London, the same year in which Governor Bellingham
came over to New England.
There was a steel headpiece, a cuirass, a gorget and greaves, and a pair of gauntlets
and a sword hanging beneath.
All and especially the helmet and breast-plate so highly burnished as to glow with white
radiance, and scatter an illumination everywhere about upon the floor.
This bright panoply was not meant for mere idle show, but had been worn by the governor
on many a solemn muster and training-field, and had glittered moreover at the head of
the regiment in the Pequod War.
For though bred a lawyer, and accustomed to speak of Bacon, Coke, Noy, and Finch as his
professional associates, the exigencies of this new country had transformed Governor
Bellingham into a soldier, as well as a statesman and ruler.
Little Pearl, who was as greatly pleased with the gleaming armor as she had been with the
glittering frontispiece of the house, spent some time looking into the polished mirror
of the breast-plate.
"'Mother,' cried she, "'I see you here.
Look!
Look!'
Hester looked by way of humouring the child, and she saw that, owing to the peculiar effect
of this convex mirror, the scarlet letter was represented in exaggerated and gigantic
proportions, so as to be greatly the most prominent feature of her appearance.
In truth, she seemed absolutely hidden behind it.
Pearl pointed upwards also at a similar picture in the headpiece, smiling at her mother with
the elvish intelligence that was so familiar an expression to her small physiognomy.
That look of naughty merriment was likewise reflected in the mirror, with so much breadth
and intensity of effect that it made Hester Prynne feel as if it could not be the image
of her own child, but of an imp who was seeking to mold itself into Pearl's shape.
"'Come along, Pearl,' said she, drawing her away.
"'Come and look into this fair garden.
It may be we shall see flowers there—more beautiful ones than we find in the woods.'
Pearl accordingly ran to the bow-window at the further end of the hall, and looked along
the vista of a garden-walk, carpeted with closely shaven grass, and bordered with some
rude and immature attempt at shrubbery.
But the proprietor appeared already to have relinquished as hopeless the effort to perpetuate
on this side of the Atlantic, in a hard soil, and amid the close struggle for subsistence,
the native English taste for ornamental gardening.
Cabages grew in plain sight, and a pumpkin-vine, rooted at some distance, had run across the
intervening space and deposited one of its gigantic products directly beneath the hall-window,
as if to warn the governor that this great lump of vegetable gold was as rich an ornament
as New England earth would offer him.
There were a few rose-bushes, however, and a number of apple-trees, probably the descendants
of those planted by the reverend Mr. Blackstone, the first settler of the peninsula, that half-mythological
personage who rides through our early annals seated on the back of a bull.
Pearl, seeing the rose-bushes, began to cry for a red rose, and would not be pacified.
"'Hush, child, hush!' said her mother earnestly.
"'Do not cry, dear little Pearl.
I hear voices in the garden.
The governor is coming, and gentlemen along with him.'
In fact, down the vista of the garden avenue, a number of persons were seen approaching
towards the house.
Pearl, in utter scorn of her mother's attempt to quiet her, gave an eldritch scream, and
then became silent, not from any notion of obedience, but because the quick and mobile
curiosity of her disposition was excited by the appearance of those new personages.